---
title: "About"
layout: "about"
url: "/about/"
summary: about
ShowReadingTime: false
---
Hello and very please to have you here. I'm a network engineer and outdoor adventurer living in the American West. Namely, within the suburbs of Salt Lake City, Utah. I grew up in a few geographical areas of the United States but was fortunate enough to have parents that valued being outdoors and prioritized camping trips each year. This habit unfortunately waned as the young family aged and got pulled in a variety of directions with school, social life, and the evolution of priorities. The impressions about being in nature certainly stayed with me. As an adult now I thought it best to rediscover something dear to my upbringing. The experiences have been surprisingly positive so far I look forward to the many more I have planned.

Much of the content I draft on this site is driven by my literary and visual appreciation of the American West. It is my hope that by sharing these experiences that I can fortify in others a respect for this unique geographic region. In a matter of hours you can travel from snow-covered mountain peaks to the desert with sandstone canyons hundreds of feet deep etched with petroglyphs hundreds of years old. My goal is to have the bulk my content sourced from trip reports within the region. Since this is not realistic with a full-time job, other content will be present. I will cover more macro-oriented topics such as land usage, conservation, public access, and some fundamental reasons why many individuals in this world chose to forego the comforts of their homes to experience the beauty of nature. Further tertiary topics frequently make it into my writing when weather or my personal schedule prohibit out in the field reports. Subjects can vary and might include gear reviews, interviews with prominent members of the community, and even sociological discussions about the budding overland industry exploiting social media creators.

The primary method of accessing these remote locations are with my off-road vehicle in an efficient and highly mobile fashion. In most modern circles this is called overlanding, however, I find that term pretentious and only consider overlanders to be glorified car campers. To be fair to the term, overlanding has a significant distinction of traversing rough and remote terrain whereas car camping is generally intended to only be through easily accessible roads and locations. The general goal of overlanding is to be self-sufficient in the backcountry and to experience the area while touring it rather than simply establishing yourself in a single location. While not experiencing nature as purely as a backpacker, I still strive for the same leave no trace philosophy and responsible land stewardship. This style of outdoorsmanship has its own budding community with a variety of quirks that I hope to explore in a few articles.

Other creative venues you might see me on are on my Instagram account, [tcp.rst](https://www.instagram.com/tcp.rst/). The name comes from the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), which is a network engineering methodology for computers to talk to each other and exchange information. If you have not heard of this term before you can simply accept the fact that it guides the vast majority of communication over the internet. During a normal TCP conversation, certain flags can be added to packets for various reasons but the funniest is certainly the reset (RST) flag. If you can imagine having a normal conversation with another person and they suddenly scream "No!" and sprint out of the room without explanation. Many of my colleagues jokingly use the phrase “reset” when abruptly leaving a conversation at work. The last facet of this joke is that a RST packet is identified in bright red in packet capture software, which is the same color of my vehicle sporting this vanity license plate.